.TH BEANSTALKD 1 "October 14, 2009"
.SH NAME
beastalkd \- A simple, fast work queue.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B beanstalkd
.RI [ options ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B beanstalkd
work-queue service.
The beanstalk interface is generic, but was originally
designed for reducing the latency of page views in high-volume web applications
by running time-consuming tasks asynchronously.
.br
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-b <dir>
Use a binlog to keep jobs on persistent storage in <dir>. Upon startup,
beanstalkd will recover any binlog that is present in <dir>, then, during
normal operation, append new jobs and changes in state to the binlog.
.TP
.B \-d
Detach and run beanstalkd as a daemon.
.TP
.B \-V
Increase verbosity. May be used more than once to produce even more
verbose output. The output format is subject to change.
.TP
.B \-f <ms>
Call
.BR fsync (2)
at most once every <ms> milliseconds. This will recuce disk activity
and improve speed at the cost of safety. A power failure could result in the
loss of up to <ms> milliseconds of history.

A <ms> value of 0 will cause beanstalkd to call fsync every time it writes to
the binlog.

This option has no effect without the
.B \-b
option.
.TP
.B \-F
Never call
.BR fsync (2)
function. This is like
.B \-f
with a <ms> value of infinity.

This option has no effect without the
.B \-b
option.
.TP
.B \-h
Show the command line help and summary of options.
.TP
.B \-l <addr>
Listen on address <addr> (default is 0.0.0.0)
.TP
.B \-p <port>
Listen on TCP port <port> (default is 11300).
.TP
.B \-s <bytes>
The maximum size in bytes of each binlog file.

This option has no effect without the
.B \-b
option.
.TP
.B \-u <user>
Become the user <user> and its primary group.
.TP
.B \-z <bytes>
The maximum size in bytes of a job.
.SH LICENSE
The beanstalkd daemon is copyright Keith Rarick and Philotic Inc. and is
distributed under the GNU General Public License version 3 or later.
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
The README file that comes with beanstalkd
.br
.B http://xph.us/software/beanstalkd/
.SH AUTHOR
The beanstalkd daemon was written by Keith Rarick and Philotic Inc.
.br
